The Kappa Architecture
is sort of an old idea.
It's not like it was invented.
It's just kind of a practice
that's evolved over time.
You might also hear people talk
about things like event sourcing,
similar kinds of ideas.
They basically all mean this idea.
Sometimes they emphasize
different parts of it and
sometimes they leave out important parts.
So it's important to know
when they're doing that.
Because things like the immutability.
And the Pindell leanness are kind of
important to get the nice properties of
Merkle DAGs.
I see on the chat someone's asking if
Bitcoin uses a Merkle DAG, it does, yeah.
So that's how Bitcoin kind
of has like a single log.
So it doesn't really allow forking,
except with some of the extensions like
side chains and that kind of stuff.
I'm no expert in Bitcoin, but
I know that it is one, all right.
So getting back to the Kappa Architecture,
the main idea with
a Kappa Architecture is that
you have an append only logs.
So you can only add items
to the end of the log and
it's like a log book in a ship or
a store or something.
You're not gonna go back and
erase things, scroll them out.
You can only add things.
In fact, if you want to amend
something you said previously,
you have to do that as a new document.
It's like say, by the way,
I messed up way back there at that hash.
It really ought to have been this way.
This idea is a really important idea for
building systems that kind of have
the certain robustness properties because
there's always a list of what happened.
And you can always take that list.
And because it's the single source of
truth, you can always play it back and
get into the same state that you were
at previously, so long as your indexes
which are also called materialized
views in this in this parlance.
If those materialized views are completely
deterministic, which they ought to be,
then you'll get back to where you started.
So this is a really useful
idea if you're building
an enterprise bus with Kafka or something.
But it's also really handy for
building a peer to peer system where
you don't even have any servers.
If you're just running the software
on people's own computers,
their phones,
web pages even that kind of thing.
So to build an append only log,
we can use the same trick that we've
just seen with hashes to make
that log into a Merkle DAG.
This does mean that the log
might diverge in some cases.
So this would be a constraint
that if you can deal with logs,
then that fork, then you can let
the hashes be whatever you want.
But otherwise, if there's only supposed
to be a single, a non-forking log,
then that's just something you have
to verify in your client software.
And then other clients would have
to verify that property for you.
So for example, if there was a fork,
the clients could just like
reject the slug altogether.
It's like, this is no good.
And that forking couldn't be
caused by an adversary if you do
things like use cryptographic signatures
to verify authorship of that log.
So the best thing about append
only logs is that replication
is literally concatenation
in the naive case.
There's fancier ways to do it but
if you wanna make something really simple,
like we could write some shell scripts.
And just using the cat command,
we could do sync with two logs
just by concatenating them.
This is also true because
with a Merkle DAG,
if you're addressing is based on hashes,
you can always write the document
with the hash as many times as you like
in the graph structure doesn't change.
Because you're not linking
to anything different.
So with concatenation, it doesn't matter
if you've seen the same documents again,
you just, whatever,
I already have them, that's okay.
I'm gonna get the same end
result in either case.
So it's just the easiest
way that you can get
data synchronization is to put
your data into an append only log.